Applications of Hashing:

1. Dictionaries
2.Database indexing
3.Cryptography
4.Caches
5.Symbol tables in comilers/interpreters
6.Routers
7.Getting data from database
many more

1.Dictionaries: Implementing dictionaries if someone gives a word and ask whether its a valid we can check with hashing
2.Database Indexing : They use indexing to quickly find records. -> Primary indexing
                                                                 -> Secondary indedxing
                                                                 These indexing can be done in 2 ways
                                                                 1. B & B+ trees
                                                                 2.Hashing
                       using hashing we can build these indexing
3.Cryptography : 
When we log inro a website and we enter our password . if it say decent website . they will never save password in decent text form . 
They first generate a hash out of it and store again.

4.Caches :
Browser caches,local url -> key
              value -> data assciated with url
              So they can quickly find out what are local storage values or the values for that particular url.
5. Symbol tables in compilers/Interpreters
        -> when you program u use memory variables and these variables have to be looked up quivkly whether they are valid variables 
        or not to findout there addresses . Compilers/interpreters uses symble tables which are nothing but hashes
        
6. Routers :
when routers are connected to local n/w , example home routerwhich is wifi router.it is connected to local devices and it is also connected to internet so 
for the local devices,it needs to quickly findout the device for the given ip address that mapping typically routers store using hashing to know the device for an ip address.

7.Getting dtaa from databases :
when we write programs . We are wprking with databases , we get data from tables, this tables store data in multiple
columns so we use these columns as keys and we gave most of the libraries as library functions to get this data of associated arrays(hashing)
